---
content_type: page
description: This page includes final project guidelines.
draft: false
title: Guidelines for Final Project
uid: 94d2bce4-3e02-4beb-b6df-7ed84ebc196c
---
The purpose of the final project is to give students an opportunity to focus on a particular subject in nonlinear dynamics that they find interesting. For example, the project could be an analysis of an interesting paper or topic in the current scientific literature. It could also be an attempt to apply what you have learned in the class to a particular problem that interests you. In either case you may find it useful to perform your own theoretical or numerical analyses—indeed we encourage it! Analysis of experimental or observational data—or your own experiments or observations!—is also possible. The format is largely unconstrained, but we require the following:

- Submission of your topic and a brief summary (i.e., a short paragraph) by November 8. 
- A written report, due on the day of the last class (Dec. 13). Brevity (∼1500 words, not including ﬁgures or references) is valued over length, but if you need more space to make your point, we’ll read it. We are seeking your personal, critical view of a subject. Of course you should review what’s known or been done, but your creative input is valued above all else. 
- A brief (∼3 minute) oral presentation summarizing what you’ve learned, presented during the last meeting of the class (Dec. 13).

We strongly advise you to not wait until the last minute to do this. The point of this project is to encourage you to think imaginatively about nonlinear dynamics, and that won’t be possible if you start thinking about the project the day before it is due. Nonlinear dynamics and its applications throughout science and engineering, and even social science, is a very active area of research. Although our course focuses on the behavior of simple systems with only a few degrees of freedom, much current research focuses instead on more com-plex systems with many degrees of freedom (ranging, e.g., from a turbulent ﬂuid to a large social network). Please feel free to explore such problems—and if you do, you will ﬁnd that the concepts and tools you’ve learned in our class will remain useful. If you need ideas, a good way to start could be to search Google Scholar (scholar.google.com) for some keywords of a subject that interests you in addition to the words nonlinear dynamics. Highly cited reviews often provide a good introduction. Though there’s certainly a virtue to fo-cusing on current research, an enormous amount of good work in nonlinear dynamics and chaos, particularly in physical systems, dates to the 1980s and 1990s, and that’s of interest too. Finally, we’d be happy to talk to you about this and provide suggestions related to your interests—before you choose your topic or after. Just come during our ofﬁce hours, or make an appointment, or approach us after class.